see if that works by the way we're not
going to do IELTS speaking instead we're
going to do IELTS writing task to more
of a lecture than anything else I just
want to clarify a lot of things about
IELTS writing task - if you're here for
IELTS speaking and I'd suggest that you
watch one of the videos that I did last
week or the week before because well the
method doesn't reel
we chain yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I've
looked at part one I've looked at part
two the discussion is more just sort of
natural ability I think so yes check out
those videos if you are keen to focus on
IELTS speaking but in this one we're
going to look at IELTS writing task 2 as
I said there's just a lot to it
IELTS writing and IELTS writing seems to
be the most difficult skill
whenever somebody gives me their report
card it seems to be like IELTS 9 9 9 6.5
for writing it's crazy it really seems
unfair so I want to look at that
unfairness and pull it apart and find
out why it is that
it's few people above a 6.5 why why it's
so common to get 6.5 and so uncommon
leaf not impossible to get above that
6.5 it's frustrating it's frustrating
all right cool just bear with me while I
get my slides up and let me just make
sure that's working
rock and roll hello everybody my name is
J and I'm one of the expert teachers of
e to language what we're going to do is
we're going to look at IELTS writing
task 2 I'm going to explain to you
everything you need to know about this
essay in a very short period of time in
fact what we will do specifically is
I'll give you a quick overview of IELTS
writing task 2 I'm also going to show
you the fire
prynt quits that you'll see on sorry
you'll see one of five different
question types I'm also going to talk to
you about how your scored from four
point five to nine because there seems
to be a little bit of a there's
something going on everybody seems to
get six point five why why is that it's
frustrating I see so many frustrated
students they come to eat your language
for help because they're stuck at six
point five and on that I'm also going to
talk to you briefly about some top
conspiracy theories which will be a bit
of fun so stick around do watch this
video it will certainly give you all the
information you need for IELTS writing
task to the essay this will apply to
both academic and general cool-cool
alright let's get started so let's just
have a quick overview of this part of
the test basically what's gonna happen
is you're gonna sit in a room with
thirty out of the people with a gray
lead pencil you're gonna sit there
they're gonna plop a test paper onto
your desk what's it gonna look like and
what do you have to do well this is what
its gonna look like you're gonna see
something like this on the test paper
and there's a bit of interesting
important information here first of all
it says you should spend about 40
minutes on this task okay why 40 minutes
well in fact you get one hour but the
essay is worth twice as many points as
your task one so you should spend wink T
minutes on task one and 40 minutes on
task two and you have to manage your own
time there some people like to start
with the essay and finish with task one
the graph or the letter some people like
to start with task one just to get them
warmed up and then enter into task - I
probably recommend doing that because
the essay is worth twice as many points
and so it's probably best to warm up
first
then write a really stellar essay okay
okay you guys you're in the middle of
that question or that test booklet
you're going to see the question prompt
and we're going to look as I said at all
the different types of questions you'll
see on test day so stick around I want
to show you those lastly it says give
reasons and relevant examples and then
it says write at least 250 words so
let's summarize all of this information
into a little thing it says basically
this spend about 40 minutes on the essay
you have to answer the question fully
I'm gonna talk about that later as well
you need to write at least 250 worth
which by the way using a pencil writing
250 words in 40 minutes
it's not easy really not easy it's it's
typing 250 words in 20 minutes easy
piece of cake when was the last time you
wrote an essay with a pencil well it
changes things dramatically you need to
give reasons and examples I'll show you
how to do that and as I said task two is
actually worth two thirds of your mark
so that's just the little overview of
IELTS writing task 2 now let's talk
about the five question types that
you'll see on Tuesday 5 decent different
possible to only see one but you need to
know what the five are you need to
prepare for them these are the five okay
I'm gonna break them down for you first
one is a problem-solution sa second is a
double question we will just get to
direct questions you'll have a
agree/disagree question prompt that will
say something like to what extent do you
agree or disagree there's another one
which is the discussion and discuss both
views and then there's the advantages
and disadvantages these are the five but
in fact there are more than five because
two of these come with a possible
opinion so let's go through this so in
fact really this well there's five but
this there's two others because this one
here discuss both views you may get just
this part here or you may get an
additional phrase that asks you to give
your opinion as well I'll talk to you
about how to write both of those and
number five is the same you can get a
disadvantages discuss the advantages and
disadvantages or the question prompts
might say discuss the advantages and
disadvantages and talk about which one
you think is best or do the advantages
outweigh the disadvantages which is an
opinion so in other words two of these
may come with an opinion as well what
does that all mean let's look at the
problem solution one first this is what
it will look like on test day so you sit
down on test day you look down at your
piece of paper and it says this every
year more and more students choose to
study online rather than attend classes
on campus what do you think are the
causes of this what solutions can you
suggest because of this prompt is always
the same for the problem solution essay
so if you see these two words you know
that you are writing a problem solution
essay there will always just be some
sort of social problem mentioned here
about I don't know maybe it will talk
about
pollution
I don't know obesity or something going
on in the world and I'll say what are
the causes what are the solutions this
is the problem solution si cool what's
next
double question okay interesting this is
what it looks like on testing it doesn't
look much different you'll notice that
it doesn't tell you what type of essay
you have to write you have to infer it
you have to work it out by looking at
the question prompt so this one says
every year more and more students choose
to study online rather than attend
classes on campus why these whoops that
should just say why the students prefer
to study online
what can universities do to attract
students to study on campus so you see
one question here is the double estrogen
cool no problem no problem
you should know what to do that by the
way et tu language has broken down all
of these essay types into sentence by
sentence structures if you're struggling
with your IELTS write and do check out
our other videos here or check out the
website because we've as I said we've
broken these down and we give you a
step-by-step structure to write it
sentence by sentence which massively
improves your band scores or can I
should say you still need to have good
grammar and good vocabulary but
structures critical cool alright that's
the second one fine what about
agree/disagree
well this one's a little bit shorter
what you're going to see is it is a is a
one-sided opinion for example studying
online is far more effective than
studying on campus then you're going to
see this little question that says to
what extent do you agree or disagree so
you know you're looking at the agree
disagree question fine what's next
discuss both views without an opinion
with that
opinion discuss birth views it says some
people think studying on campus is the
most effective way to learn while others
believe that studying online is more
effective discuss both views don't give
your opinion don't give your opinion
cool
what about discussed both views and give
your opinion well it will be exactly the
same exactly the same but it will have
this little phrase at the end which says
and give your opinion now if you fail to
give your opinion with this one or you
give your opinion with the discuss one
that didn't ask for your opinion you
will lose significant marks why I'm
telling you this is you just need to
follow the instructions you need to look
at that prompt and do whatever it says
don't sit there on test day and think oh
it just says discuss both views maybe I
read the prompt and do what the prompt
says cool all right
next advantages and disadvantages some
people think studying online is more
effective than studying on campus what
are the advantages and disadvantages of
studying online cool so again no opinion
you're just going to discuss the
advantages you're going to discuss the
disadvantages you're not going to say
which one's better but then if you get
this prompt and give your opinion it may
look like this some people think
studying online is more effective than
studying on campus discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of studying
line online and give your own opinion
about which one is best so it's exactly
the same as the one before except it's
got this phrase here which asks for your
opinion now there's another one that
says this it's exactly the same but this
chair
you think the advantage of studying
online outweigh the disadvantages in
other words it is asking for your
opinion and you better give it if you
don't you lose points cool sir they are
the five main essay question prompts
that you might see on test day and then
there's the additional two with the
opinion bit so be prepared it's good to
practice writing one of those essays
each of those essays at least and I
should also mention getting feedback on
your essay is a critical step for
success if you do need expert feedback
one on one tutorials or live classes do
check out e to language calm cool let's
talk about how you're scored because
right this does this make me frustrated
does this make me angry how do I feel
about this because what happens is
basically here is your future right your
future this is the this is the your your
university entrance this is your
migration your permanent residency your
citizenship whatever it is it's a stack
it's an essay in this pile of essays
sitting on an IELTS examiner's desk
it's gonna happen to you Wow this guy
here the IELTS examiner here he is
that's him he's got to decide whether he
gives you a four point five five five
point five or six six point five a seven
a seven point five and eight an eight
point five or a nine okay
that's your future right there now 250
words how long does he have he take it
takes him about three minutes to mark
your essay three minutes not learn 180
seconds to read and give you a score
your future is it fair well is it
accurate well is it precise well is it
valid well I don't know language testing
is not perfect language is a very
complex very abstract very contextual
3-minutes said enough time to give you a
an eight or is it anyway I like going I
like going let's just talk about how he
does this so the IELTS examiner's
looking at this which is a pretty
comprehensive set of criteria in other
words a way to assess you
whether he gained eight seven based on
four things task achievement two
coherence cohesion lexical resource
grammatical range and accuracy I'm just
I will explain what each of those mean
to you clearly in plain English because
it's crazy English but he has to sit
there and he decides okay right so task
achievement I'll give them a seven here
and let's say coherence and cohesion
yeah yeah and they used a great
structure but they're the vocabulary
let's say he gives you a five point five
because your vocabulary is terrible and
then for grammar II gives you yeah yeah
yeah grandma's not too bad a few
mistakes it gives you a seven so let's
say gives you seven here gives you nine
here gives you five point five there and
he gives you a seven here
average of four scores and let's say I
my maths is terrible let's say that
equals out to a 7.5 so there's your 7.5
it's an average of those four criteria
what are those criteria let's have a
look at them because they're important
they're really important task
achievement let's look at this one what
does that mean task achievement that
means did you answer the question fully
if you did if you answered the question
fully you'll get a 9 and I mean fully
you did not go off-topic everything you
wrote was directed at that question
prompt about coherence and cohesion well
this is structure structure this is
probably well as I said check out those
videos that I've taught on structure
because we do it sentence by sentence
I'm gonna look at each of these more
closely in a second but structure is
probably even if you're a very good
writer even if your English is excellent
an essay structure is something that's
really important to take with you into
the exam I mean smuggle it in in your
brain because if you go in with the
structure the skeleton and all you're
doing is sort of you know how to start
you know how to write the introduction 3
sentence introduction four sentence
paragraphs three sentencing conclusions
and you know how to fill it all together
you can spend more time focusing on the
question prompt you can spend more time
focusing on good vocabulary and more
time on good grammar the structure
really is the way to cheat but it's not
cheating it's just being smart and
well-prepared it's good structure can
really turn things around and help you
out cool so good structure will get you
nine and I mean good structure scent
every sentence has a purpose next one
lexical resource that means vocabulary
and I'm gonna talk to you in a second
about what that means grammatical range
and accuracy yeyeyyeyey perfect grammar
need perfect grammar to get a nine so
let's say you don't have perfect grammar
and you get a seven here and let's say
your lexical resource your your
vocabulary wow you
pretty good but you're getting ate here
so let's say you get nine for task
achievement because you're fully right
about the question you use a great eetu
language structure and here and here you
can still get a pretty damn good score
even if your grammars not perfect and in
fact they do allow for little errors
that's fine cool right let's look at
these in more detail task achievement
how do you answer the question fully how
do you answer the question fully so
let's look at this one so you sit down
on test day and it says every year more
and more students choose to study online
rather than attend classes on campus
what do you think the causes of what are
the causes and what solutions can you
suggest so we know that this is the
problem solution si we're going to help
one paragraph about the solutions and
everything we write everything we write
is going to be dedicated to this why
students are choosing to study online
and not attending campus nothing we
write will go off topic every sentence
will have a purpose directed to that
question prompt that is how you answer
the question fully and when you're doing
this essay when you're writing the essay
doesn't matter if you're nervous and the
pressure and the person next to you is
coughing and sniffing and the whole
thing's a bit strange keep looking back
to the question prompt every few minutes
look up at the question prompt and just
ask yourself am I still writing on topic
because it doesn't matter if you're
writing a beautiful
if it's often slightly your task
achievement score will plummet cool what
about this one double question why do
students prefer to study online so this
would become your paragraph 1 and this
will become your paragraph 2 you would
your introduction you would have as well
and your conclusion fine so you've got a
good structure there but your paragraph
1 why the students prefer to study
online and their second paragraph what
can universities do to attract students
to study on campus everything you write
has to be about these
pick topic points cool what about you
see this prompt and says studying online
is far more effective than studying on
campus to what extent do you agree or
disagree again you have to this one is
well to what extent do you agree or
disagree so you're going to have to
choose whether you agree or disagree
more than that how much to what extent
do you agree or disagree that study
online is more effective do you
completely agree that it's more
effective do you partially agree that
it's more effective do you do you not
agree and you do you disagree do you
fully disagree again to what extent you
have to start to consider how much and
you have to start using adverbs like
slightly completely absolutely
marginally it's like this how much again
if you need help with this check out the
videos up there cool what about this one
some people think studying on campus is
the most effective way to learn while
others believe that studying online is
more effective fine discuss both views
don't give your opinion so we're gonna
have one paragraph here about studying
on campus being effective and we're
gonna have one paragraph here about
studying online being effective and
we're not going to give our opinion fine
whoops and then this one is the same
this one will be exactly the same
however in the introduction and the
conclusion we need to give our opinion
and say which one is more effective and
why fine nearly finished what are the
advantages and disadvantages of studying
online so we're gonna give no opinion
we're gonna write one paragraph about
the advantages and we're gonna write one
paragraph about the disadvantages no
opinion but then with this one we're
going to give one paragraph about whoops
one paragraph about advantages one
paragraph about disadvantages and our
opinion in the introduction and
conclusion and this one's the same do
the advantages outweigh the
disadvantages
cool so that's task achievement how do
you get good at that practice practice
practice with good materials get
somebody to check expert feedback would
be helpful to make sure you really are
writing on topic
I think preparing for the essay like
spending instead of just as soon as you
see your prompt start writing stop and
think make sure you understand that
question prompt make sure you get your
arguments together before you start
writing make sure you understand and go
okay well what are the advantages what
are the disadvantages or what's what are
the causes of climate change and what
are the solution
a change for a few seconds get your
arguments together anything okay now
I've got it now I'll start writing and
you start writing cool next one
coherence and cohesion this is the
structure you need a logical structure
you need your phrases to be structured
your sentences to be structured your
paragraphs to be structured your essay
to be structured and it's just this is a
this is an excellent essay this is on
than I wrote before thank you very much
so here we've got a three sentence
introduction which has a logical
structure we've got a four sentence
paragraph and here as well and we've got
a uh we've got a three sentence
conclusion here as well fine now what's
happened here is if we want a great
introduction well the introduction
should linked in paragraph one the
introduction should link to paragraph
two and the introduction should link to
the conclusion because that third
sentence of the introduction tells the
reader what you will tell them this
essay will discuss paragraph one and
paragraph two well he is paragraph one
and he is paragraph two fine so that's
how the introduction connects to
everything what about the conclusion
well the conclusion says this essay
discussed paragraph one and paragraph
two is embedded in there as well so
we've got a connection back from the
conclusion to paragraph one and
paragraph two and of course the
conclusion mirrors the introduction so
what's happening here is we've got a bit
of a cycle going on okay and the cycle
is what the good structure is all about
how everything connects how every
sentence has a purpose and then within
this we've got the paragraphs themselves
have a logical cyclical structure where
they the first sentence connects back to
the the last sentence and the last
sentence connects to the first sentence
etc
this is a logical structure it's it's
really hard just to say write an essay
because whoa well what are the confines
because you can go in any direction what
you really need is experts who can
really direct you sentence vise really
sentence by sentence is the only way to
do this
I I've I've been writing essays for a
long time right I've I've been a teacher
for nearly ten years I've been studied
at my master's degree at university I've
written I've studied for six years at
university I've done lots and lots of
writing I've published research papers
etc structure is even hard for me who I
do this for a job and I still find
structure complex and and difficult
foolish TR linguistics major you're
probably gonna find it a little bit
tricky and you might need some help
right even if you're a good writer
already probably just need somebody say
hey here's the best IELTS essay
structure there is cool right I'm gonna
talk about three and four together three
and four is vocabulary and grammar
because you can't really separate these
two these two are so strongly connected
to each other because grammar is inside
of the words and inside of the sentences
so let's have a look at this vocabulary
and grammar how do you get an IELTS 9
well first of all let's think about
verbs because verbs are well they're a
type of word and
[Music]
oops our included sentence has a verb
verb is a type of word verbs change
grammatically like past tense edy
present tense will plus verb this is
grammar plus vocabulary there's no
distinction really so let's look at how
my verbs are in this in this essay so
just quickly we've got a present perfect
has become present continuous are having
present simple present simple future
simple present simple modal verb can do
present simple have been leaving present
perfect continuous present simple
present simple with the S not who want
who wants here we got can flick we got
modal verb present simple modal verb
present simple present simple present
simple future simple passive there's a
passive verb future simple our present
continuous present simple future simple
this is hard here we go here's a past
simple present simple will not there's a
negative and there's a phrase be able to
compete and we'll continue is only going
in other words I have a range of
different verbs
now did I just try and fill my essay
with different verbs to show off to the
examiner nor what I did was use the
right verb at the right time to express
meaning clearly that's what it's all
about you don't just think I need to
include present simple and and tasks
continuous and this know what you're
trying to do is articulate or express
yourself as clearly as possible and you
know to in order to do that you'll have
to use different verbs plus the e2
language essay structure helps you to
cheat a little bit because it includes
some future simple some past simple and
the rest is up to you okay cool so
that's very
what about articles a lot of people have
trouble with articles so let's have a
little look here at how I've used these
articles so got our time are difficult
the early 2000s the classroom ah
one-hour lecture
flick a switch the classes the hassle
the major reason whoops a long way away
so you can see my articles there now
articles are always attached to nouns
so what nouns if I use well I've been
very careful because I've got nouns like
studying online is a noun in fact years
plural universities plural at time
classrooms plural students plural
classes plural campus singular s a
singular students plural online study
universities students campus the early
2000s plural in fact the classroom
singular computers plural are switch non
definite any switch nonspecific is what
I'm looking for so my my articles have
matched those nouns and those nouns I've
been very careful not to make silly
mistakes like singular and plural nouns
one student more than one students put
the S on the end
don't make little grammar mistakes like
that the examiner will just go bad you
just lose I don't know too bad scores
cool what about adjectives well yeah
adjectives are a good way adjectives are
one of the words that you can show off a
little bit adjectives because you have
synonyms right like you know you have
the word big and you can do you want to
use the word big in your essay it's
pretty simple so you have a choice to
make in use enormous massive gigantic
huge so you've got different synonyms
when it comes to adjectives to make your
essay score more highly so have a look
at mine mine why not
great I've got ones like popular recent
difficult
early I've got one of these comparative
ones more convenient one our
technological long major reason online
study so I've used good adjectives good
clear adjectives and they're accurate
and precise fine what about one of the
things that I find students worry about
too much or make the mistake of thinking
is that they have to just use well how
can I say this really uncommon
vocabulary really sort of bizarre
strange words that nobody ever uses like
supercalifragilistic expialidocious no
it's about it's it's it's not about that
it's not about finding some word in the
dictionary that nobody knows the meaning
of and thinking that that will help you
to get a high score it's about this it's
about natural phrases what I mean by
that is this I mean phrases like
increasingly popular in recent years so
much so having a difficult time put
simply rather than bring them back since
the early 1990s or 2000 first and
foremost far more convenient peak hour
traffic flick a switch be there in
person a long way away major reason so
first of all words very rarely come as
individuals words should come in natural
phrases of two three four even five or
six words that come together to form
natural phrases when the IELTS examiner
sees phrases word combinations like this
that's when he says rock and roll this
person knows what they're doing when he
sees a word like supercalifragilistic
expialidocious
he thinks this person has tried to use
an uncommon word to
high score in other words what the
examiner needs to read in that three
minutes needs to be full of these
natural phrases these collocations these
word combinations cool sentence types
you also need to think about sentence
types they're really well there's four
different types but really we can break
it down to two different sentence types
in English simple sentences that are
just subject-verb-object and complex
sentences that are maybe
subject-verb-object subject verb object
or subject verb object verb object
there's a variety of different types
have a look at my essay here just two of
the paragraphs so the black sentences
are complex sentences that have
adjoining adjoining word that combines
two sentences into one the orange
sentences are just simple like students
prefer to study online actually this
one's a little bit complex because it's
got the it's got the second verb since
the early 2000 students have been
leaving the classroom in favor of
studying on their computers that is in
fact a simple question it's a simple
sentence it's got the one verb here it's
got the subject here and it's got a long
object here but that's fine then we've
got the black sentence here that says
technological advances such as
live-streaming
mean that next sentence students can
participate in the classes without
having to be there in person in other
words what a complex sentence is has
joined several ideas together you need
to have a mixture a variety of simple
and complex in order to get up to that
IELTS 8 if you just write simple
sentences it's going to be pretty hard
to get above a 7 or even a 6.5 or even
to reach a 6.5 if you just write in
complex sentences well your essay is
probably not going to make much sense so
you need to find a bit of a ratio
between simple and complex in order to
score maximize your scores
right here we go conspiracy theories
this guy is wearing a tinfoil hat does
anybody know why why do people wear
tinfoil hats because they're crazy
because they believe in aliens and they
believe in government conspiracies and
and that the president puts fluoride in
your toothpaste to make your IQ drop and
basically what a conspiracy theory is is
an idea that doesn't really have any
evidence or does it I'd like for you to
help me identify whether these
conspiracy theories about IELTS are true
or not please put your comments in below
tell me what you think of these ones
okay
here we go tinfoil hat man is it true or
not so the first one this is the biggest
one I alts purposely fail you and they
give you 6.5 for writing 6.5 for writing
every time why well perhaps they make a
whole lot of them ma honey from you 330
bucks each time you take that test is
this true what do you think I mean I
don't know I've never been an IELTS
examiner I don't know what's going on
there what I can tell you from helping a
lot of people pass their IELTS is that
the score reports I see from IELTS
consistently show lower writing marks
than speaking reading or listening very
often I will get a score report somebody
of someone through and say hey II to
language help me please and I'll look at
the report and it'll be like listening
eight reading eight speaking eight point
five writing six point five and this is
not uncommon I see this a lot I see this
a lot I really do
I don't know what to make of this
actually please again
into the comments below what you think
is going on here but on the other hand I
see the same thing with the PTA academic
with the PT academic I see writing score
80 listening 80 reading 80 speaking 60
so how can you win it's kind of tough
right so that's the first one maybe it's
rigged here's another one that's
interesting especially for speaking what
if I take the test overseas because
let's say I'm taking the IELTS in in
Australia well English is spoken here
it's the lingua franca it's the main
language so and the IELTS examiner's are
all native speakers and the people that
I'm competing against well they're
probably been to university here and
they've been speaking English for years
so would it be easier for me to fly to a
different country like Malaysia or
Indonesia to take the IELTS and to do
the speaking because maybe the IELTS
examiner is a non-native English speaker
maybe my English will be better than the
examiners and all of the people I'm
sitting with in the room are non-native
English speakers as well so maybe mine
will be better is this a good idea or
not again what do I think about this I
think there's some there's probably some
truth in this because let's face it
humans are biased it's almost impossible
or if not impossible to take out the
biases of the IELTS examiner especially
in speaking there's been countless
scientific studies done on how biased
people are by people are biased towards
looks if you're better looking you'll
get a higher score if people are biased
towards race people are biased towards
the clothes that you're wearing the
haircut you've got whether you've got
tattoos and nose piercings all sorts of
stuff goes not now
just let me stop there because I don't
want to I mean IELTS does all it can to
stop bias creeping into the way you're
examined that document I showed you
before that the IELTS examiner has to
look at in order to give your writing
there's a similar one for speaking where
it's based on grammar vocabulary
pronunciation and fluency so in fact the
document there should stopped should
stop bias from happening because the
examiner shouldn't be looking at you or
worrying about who you are or where
you're from or whatever
none of those details the IELTS
examiner's should be going okay can use
past tense verbs can use collocations
vocabulary pronunciation is clear and
fluency intonation etc Bom Bom Bom
there's your score but does that happen
I don't know probably to a large degree
there's probably a little bit of bias
creeping in is it worth spending $2,000
to fly to another country probably not
probably a lot cheaper to do a good
preparation course through e to language
anyway I won't go on there third one
here we go this is another cracker the
reason for taking the test okay so this
is the first time that I've heard this
but and this relates to the six point
five but apparently some people are now
when you fill out when you apply to take
an IELTS you have to give the reason why
you're taking it you're taking it for
immigration university entrance
employment whatever it is there's a
little conspiracy theory going around at
the moment that if you tick other then
IELTS don't know why you're taking the
test and so they have no reason to give
you a six point five is this one true no
idea no idea no idea it's interesting
anyway it's interesting so there you go
I don't know if I don't know if this guy
here where is he I don't know if this
guy here is tell
the truth or whether he's crazy I'm not
sure I'm not sure one of the things I do
think that can just help you help you
instead of doing this alone and
struggling and going through those crazy
staircases never ever finding the the
score that you need and going up and
down and across and around maybe you
should stop because there are three
things you need to improve you need
methods you need practice and and
probably most importantly you need
feedback you know what I mean precisely
is you need methods for how to do the
reading for example you need structures
for the essay you need formula for the
writing task one and not done by some
crackpot teacher done by somebody who
really knows what's going on who's
really able to deconstruct these essays
and to give you that structure that
formula that template whatever it is
that works because it's not simple it's
really not this is complex stuff ii
think good quality practice material
well i showed you the different question
types before now what happens if you
start practicing with a question type
that doesn't exist what if you start
practicing with a question type and the
question prompt is wrong that's gonna be
really unhelpful not only unhelpful but
it would be he's a new word dealer
tereus it'll actually decrease your
scores because you're starting to
practice with the wrong thing or with
the reading or if the listening or if
you're speaking so think about getting
good quality practice material
lastly feedback is critical especially
for speaking and writing because how do
you know what you're doing wrong you
write the essay da da da da da da great
where's the objective assessment of that
who's the person who can look at it and
go right okay structure grammar
vocabulary on topic or with speaking who
can assess your speaking go
pronunciation oral fluency intonation
word stress
this is complex stuff this is what the
IELTS examiner's know or at least they
should know and this is what why you
probably should check out this website
here go to if you need any help
check out www.engvid.com and please if
you're watching this on youtube click
like I would appreciate that very much
don't forget to subscribe and do leave
your comments about conspiracy theories
because I'm very interested in them
right now I'll go to Q&A and I'll answer
some questions Jay I have a question I
got six in academic writing the last
time I took the IELTS the question was
if mobile phone is positive or negative
okay I would have to see the question
but it sounds to me like to what extent
you agree or disagree I think or was it
the double question I would need to see
the question prompt if I'll tell you
which one it is I can tell you that with
the advantages and disadvantages
sometimes they talk about benefits and
drawbacks or the positive and the
negative so it could have been
advantages disadvantage of the mobile
phone in which case they might not use
the precise those exact words advantages
disadvantages benefits drawbacks
positives negatives pros cons etc okay
yeah yeah exactly it may have used a
different word like that all right any
other questions there any other
questions yesh avi I'm
able to improve my reading from bad
school 5 when I take the test at home
please help me
reading is a real trick reading is a
real trick because the questions
themselves are so convoluted and tricky
and you know yes no not given true false
not given matching sentence endings well
the way they look on the test paper one
of the biggest things is actually
understanding the question types for
reading but of course there's
fundamental skills as well do you have
the vocabulary do you have the grammar
do you have the extensive reading
knowledge so that when you're reading
about I don't know carrots you know
you're reading about birds and do you
have the vocabulary related to that
building vocabulary is absolutely
critical
[Music]
any other questions any other questions
okay so probably was asking again about
the writing task 2 so if they don't ask
for your opinion do we need to give it
Nora if they don't ask for your opinion
don't give your opinion if they do ask
for your opinion give your opinion
please follow those rules because
they're the instructions so when it says
discuss both views discuss both views
and don't give your opinion if it says
discuss both views and give your opinion
so that's that's critical sorry Omar no
Riz me how to write a paragraph please
go to e to language comm we show you how
to do that cool all right that's that
let me check out what's going on in
YouTube um fine fine fine
so here Ken reading books helped my
writing skill mmm
to an extent to a small extent what's
going to help your writing skills
writing and feedback on your writing so
you know what you did wrong so you can
improve next time around cool all right
I'm gonna leave it there thanks very
much watching please give me a little
thumbs up if you like this video leave a
comment tell me your conspiracy theory
I'd like to hear it and don't forget to
subscribe I will see you guys next time
paid e to language comp members I'll see
you Tuesday actually for the IELTS
writing task 1 thanks very much for
coming along